                    RASP - Robust Parsing System for English

                       THIRD RELEASE, OPEN-SOURCE VERSION

                                 February 2011


LICENCE

This version of RASP is released under the LGPL open-source licence.
See COPYING and COPYING.LESSER for details.


CONTENTS

There are a number of directories at the top level. They are:

  "gde" -- executables and help files for the grammar development
  environment and parser. The directory also contains a "README" file
  giving instructions on how use the environment on its own to develop
  grammars.

  "manuals" -- documentation for the PoS tagset used, gde and grammar,
  tsg-doc.pdf is a general `howto' and `best practice' document for
  RASP which we recommend every user reads

  "morph" -- contains executables and source code for the Sussex
  lemmatiser / morph analysis and generation system (see "README" file).

  "prob" -- contains the grammar used for parsing and associated
  statistical model, training material, the gramar development corpus,
  and evaluation data and source code for carrying out evaluations.

  "scripts" -- unix shell scripts for running the whole analysis system,
  or just the parser.

  "sentence" -- executables and source code for sentence boundary
  detection.

  "tag" -- executables and source code for the PoS tagger, and data files
  (lexicon etc) to allow it to be used in conjunction with the tag
  sequence grammar.

  "tokenise" -- executables and source code for tokenisation (assuming
  previous sentence boundary detection) and compatible with the tagger,
  morphological analysis and parser.

To run the whole system on English text, see the section below on
running the system, and also the file "scripts/README".  To use any of
the modules on its own, see the "README" file in the relevant
directory.


PRE-BUILT BINARIES

Binaries are supplied for the following architecture/OS combinations:

ix86_linux
ix86_darwin (Mac OS X on Intel Core Solo/Duo)
x86_64_linux
x86_64_darwin (Mac OS X on Intel Core 2 and above)

RUNNING THE SYSTEM

There are two shell scripts, rasp.sh and rasp_parse.sh, in the scripts
directory which run the complete RASP NL analysis system and just the
parser respectively.

You will need to change the value of the variable RASP in both scripts
to be the appropriate value for your system (see the files themselves
for examples).

Examples of usage of rasp.sh (assuming "scripts" is the current
directory):

  $ ./rasp.sh -m < file.txt > analysed.txt
  $ echo "This is a test." | ./rasp.sh -p'-os -u'
  $ ./rasp.sh -m < README > README.parses

Examples of usage of rasp_parse.sh: 

  $ ./rasp_parse.sh -l/tmp/log1 -s -t5 < tagged.txt
  $ ./rasp_parse.sh -n1000 -ogw <<EOF
  ^_^ Yesterday_RT Swapo_NP1 register+ed_VVD its_APP$ opposition_NN1
  EOF

README files are also provided in each component's directory.

SUPPORT

The RASP system is derived in part from portions of the Alvey NL Tools;
see <http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/Research/NL/anlt.html>. Development of the
RASP system was funded by the UK EPSRC within the project "Robust
Accurate Statistical Parsing (RASP)" (grants GR/N36462 and GR/N36493).

The system is distributed for non-commercial use, and without any
guarantee of support. We do however welcome reports of bugs or
shortcomings; also fixes or work-rounds sent as email. But before
reporting a bug, please read the documentation for the software and
grammar since the behaviour may already be known about, or be an
intentional feature. Contact information for the  RASP developers
can be found on the iLexIR website <http://ilexir.co.uk/>.

More extensive support and advice is available on a paid consultancy
basis.

This open-source distribution is a cut-down version of the CVS archive and
may contain references to files that are not included.
